[DOC] add aptos wallet adapter docs (#5812)
aptos-labs/aptos-core: developer-docs-site/docs/concepts/wallet-adapter-concept.md

---
title: "Aptos Wallet Adapter"
id: "wallet-adapter-concept"
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Aptos Wallet Adapter

> Aptos provides an [Aptos Wallet Adapter](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-wallet-adapter) monorepo for wallet and dapps creators to ease development and ensure a smooth process in building projects on the Aptos network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide an [Aptos Wallet Adapter](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-wallet-adapter) for wallet and dapps creators to ease development and ensure a smooth process in building projects on the Aptos network.
```

> Aptos provides an [Aptos Wallet Adapter](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-wallet-adapter) monorepo for wallet and dapps creators to ease development and ensure a smooth process in building projects on the Aptos network.

Reviewer: these paragraphs don't really describe the problem that the wallet adapter is addressing...

1. There are a lot of wallets in the ecosystem
2. Supporting each one is a burden but not supporting them is risky for projects
3. Integration with wallets can be a complex process that requires a lot of testing

A wallet adapter solves these pain points....

or something

Author: we explain it here in details, https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core/pull/5812/files#diff-28a8dc8c00ae95b5f3d12241e42fbdcaf8e022df85c141d748d8de3cb2113001R8-R23

but we can also add some of that on that page! maybe benefits for both wallets and dapps

> The Aptos Wallet Adapter acts as a service between dapps and wallets and exposes APIs for dapps to interact with the wallets by following our [Wallet Standard](../guides/wallet-standard).

Author: @clay-aptos it relies on the change you had in https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core/pull/5806

Reviewer 2: Ack. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Merged.

> The Aptos Wallet Adapter acts as a service between dapps and wallets and exposes APIs for dapps to interact with the wallets by following our [Wallet Standard](../guides/wallet-standard).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Aptos Wallet Adapter acts as a service between dapps and wallets and exposes APIs for dapps to interact with wallets following our [Wallet Standard](../guides/wallet-standard). This in turns allows dapps to support many wallets with minimal integration efforts.
```

### Why we use this structure?

When we started building a wallet adapter, we wanted a structure that can be easy enough for wallets to integrate with and for dapps to use and implement.

We did research on the existing adapters, got some feedback from our community, and designed this structure to help wallets and dapps in development and when going to production. This structure offers the following benefits:

* Modularity (separation of concerns) - separating the adapter into three components can help having more freedom in design, implementation, deployment and usage.
* Wallets create and own their plugin implementation (instead of having all in the same monorepo):
   - Reduces the packages bundle size used by dapps.
   - Lets them be self-service and support themselves without too much friction.
   - Prevents build failures in case of any bugs/bad implementation/wrong config files/etc.
* Simplicity - keeps the Provider package very light and small as the major logic is implemented in the core package.
* Flexibility - for wallets in creating and implementing custom functions.

<center>
<ThemedImage
alt="Wallet Adapter Concept"
sources={{

>     light: useBaseUrl('/img/docs/10-adapter-chart-light.svg'),

Reviewer 2: Is there significance in the `10-` prefix of images? Can we remove it? I know Raj used numbers when more than one image exists on a page.

Author: not really, just following a convention I thought we have, fixed it

Reviewer 2: Perfect. Thank you!
